docs/pages/themes/gallery.md, before:

---
title: Valaxy Themes Gallery
title_zh-CN: Valaxy 主题橱窗
categories:
  - Theme
end: false

themes:
  - name: valaxy-theme-yun
    repo: YunYouJun/valaxy/tree/main/packages/valaxy-theme-yun
    desc: Default Theme for Valaxy
    # todo
    # preview:
    tags:
      - yun
      - light

  - name: valaxy-theme-press
    repo: YunYouJun/valaxy/tree/main/packages/valaxy-theme-press
    desc: Docs Theme for Valaxy
    # todo
    # preview:
    tags:
      - docs
      - press
---

::: tip

很高兴你看到这里，这里是 Valaxy 主题橱窗，我将会为提交主题（符合基础使用质量）的前五位作者赠送[「小云立牌」](https://twitter.com/YunYouJun/status/1633116052174299137) :P。

:::

::: zh-CN
欢迎 [提交主题](https://github.com/YunYouJun/valaxy/blob/main/docs/pages/themes/gallery.md)。
:::

::: en
Feel free to [submit your theme](https://github.com/YunYouJun/valaxy/blob/main/docs/pages/themes/gallery.md).
:::

> 后续将会优化橱窗展示。

<ThemeGallery :themes="frontmatter.themes" />
<br />

Commit message:

docs: improve the gallery page

docs/pages/themes/gallery.md, after:

---
title: Valaxy Themes Gallery
title_zh-CN: Valaxy 主题橱窗
categories:
  - Theme
end: false

themes:
  - name: valaxy-theme-yun
    repo: https://github.com/YunYouJun/valaxy/tree/main/packages/valaxy-theme-yun
    desc: Default Theme for Valaxy Default Theme for Valaxy Default Theme for Valaxy Default Theme for Valaxy Default Theme for Valaxy
    siteImage: https://s2.loli.net/2023/05/05/QoK4ZimqN3fgRdD.png
    siteExampleURL:  https://www.yunyoujun.cn
    tags:
      - yun
      - light
  - name: valaxy-theme-press
    repo: https://github.com/YunYouJun/valaxy/tree/main/packages/valaxy-theme-press
    desc: Docs Theme for Valaxy
    siteImage: https://s2.loli.net/2023/05/05/1DyEudpohIl47cP.png
    tags:
      - docs
      - press
---
::: zh-CN
::: tip

很高兴你看到这里，这里是 Valaxy 主题橱窗，我将会为提交主题（符合基础使用质量）的前五位作者赠送[「小云立牌」](https://twitter.com/YunYouJun/status/1633116052174299137) :P。



欢迎 [提交主题](https://github.com/YunYouJun/valaxy/blob/main/docs/pages/themes/gallery.md)。
:::


::: en
::: tip
Nice to see you here. This is the Valaxy Themes Gallery, and I will give away [「小云立牌」](https://twitter.com/YunYouJun/status/1633116052174299137) to the top five authors who submitted the theme (meeting the basic usage quality) :P.

Feel free to [submit your theme](https://github.com/YunYouJun/valaxy/blob/main/docs/pages/themes/gallery.md).
:::


<ThemeGallery :themes="frontmatter.themes" />
<br />
