docs/pages/guide/page.md, before:

---
title: Page
title_zh: 页面
categories:
  - guide
---

## FrontMatter

::: zh-CN
你可以使用 front-matter 定制页面属性。
:::

::: en
You can custom page by front-matter.
:::

::: tip

<div lang="zh-CN">
更多配置项可参见：

- 页面（Page）配置：[PageFrontmatter](https://github.com/YunYouJun/valaxy/blob/main/packages/valaxy/types/frontmatter/page.ts)

</div>

<div lang="en">
More configuration options can be found in:

- Page configuration: [PageFrontmatter](https://github.com/YunYouJun/valaxy/blob/main/packages/valaxy/types/frontmatter/page.ts)

</div>

::: details PageFrontmatter Types

<<< @/../packages/valaxy/types/frontmatter/page.ts#snippet{29-194 ts:line-numbers}

:::

### titleTemplate

```md
---
title: Cool
titleTemplate: '%s - Valaxy'
---
```

::: zh-CN
这样可以使 HTML 标题变为 `Cool - Valaxy`。
:::

::: en
You will get html title `Cool - Valaxy`.
:::

### 页面加密 {lang="zh-CN"}

### Encrypt Page {lang="en"}

::: warning

<div lang="zh-CN">

加密依赖于浏览器原生 [Web Crypto API | MDN](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/API/Web_Crypto_API)，
**其仅在 HTTPS 中可用**。
</div>

<div lang="en">

Encryption relies on the browser's native [Web Crypto API | MDN](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/API/Web_Crypto_API),
**It is only available in HTTPS**.
</div>
:::

```ts
// site.config.ts
import { defineSiteConfig } from 'valaxy'

export default defineSiteConfig({
  encrypt: {
    // 开启加密，默认关闭
    enable: true
    // algorithm
    // iv
    // salt
  }
})
```

::: zh-CN

在对应需要加密页面的 frontmatter 中添加 `password: YourPassword` 即可。

当 `encrypt.enable` 为 `true`，且页面中密码 `password` 存在时，默认开启加密。
:::

::: en

Add `password: YourPassword` to the frontmatter of the corresponding page to enable encryption.

When `encrypt.enable` is `true`, and the password `password` exists in the page, encryption is enabled by default.
:::

```md
---
password: valaxy
---
```

### 其它 {lang="zh-CN"}

::: zh-CN

- `toc: false`: 隐藏目录
- `aside: false`: 隐藏右侧文章导航栏
- `codeHeightLimit: 300`: 代码块高度限制（300px）

:::

### Other {lang="en"}

::: en

- `toc: false`: Hide TOC
- `aside: false`: Hide Right Aside
- `codeHeightLimit: 300`: Code block height limit（300px）

:::

Commit message:

docs: add encrypted content link desc, close #501

docs/pages/guide/page.md, after:

---
title: Page
title_zh: 页面
categories:
  - guide
---

## FrontMatter

::: zh-CN
你可以使用 front-matter 定制页面属性。
:::

::: en
You can custom page by front-matter.
:::

::: tip

<div lang="zh-CN">
更多配置项可参见：

- 页面（Page）配置：[PageFrontmatter](https://github.com/YunYouJun/valaxy/blob/main/packages/valaxy/types/frontmatter/page.ts)

</div>

<div lang="en">
More configuration options can be found in:

- Page configuration: [PageFrontmatter](https://github.com/YunYouJun/valaxy/blob/main/packages/valaxy/types/frontmatter/page.ts)

</div>

::: details PageFrontmatter Types

<<< @/../packages/valaxy/types/frontmatter/page.ts#snippet{29-194 ts:line-numbers}

:::

### titleTemplate

```md
---
title: Cool
titleTemplate: '%s - Valaxy'
---
```

::: zh-CN
这样可以使 HTML 标题变为 `Cool - Valaxy`。
:::

::: en
You will get html title `Cool - Valaxy`.
:::

### 页面加密 {lang="zh-CN"}

### Encrypt Page {lang="en"}

::: warning

<div lang="zh-CN">

加密依赖于浏览器原生 [Web Crypto API | MDN](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/API/Web_Crypto_API)，
**其仅在 HTTPS 中可用**。
</div>

<div lang="en">

Encryption relies on the browser's native [Web Crypto API | MDN](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/API/Web_Crypto_API),
**It is only available in HTTPS**.
</div>
:::

```ts
// site.config.ts
import { defineSiteConfig } from 'valaxy'

export default defineSiteConfig({
  encrypt: {
    // 开启加密，默认关闭
    enable: true
    // algorithm
    // iv
    // salt
  }
})
```

::: zh-CN

在对应需要加密页面的 frontmatter 中添加 `password: YourPassword` 即可。

当 `encrypt.enable` 为 `true`，且页面中密码 `password` 存在时，默认开启加密。

被加密的内容应在解密后动态渲染。此时无法（也不应）参与到构建流程中生成静态产物（否则会被直接看到）。
因此对于加密内容中的图片路径，总是应该使用绝对路径而非相对路径。

:::

::: en

Add `password: YourPassword` to the frontmatter of the corresponding page to enable encryption.

When `encrypt.enable` is `true`, and the password `password` exists in the page, encryption is enabled by default.

The encrypted content should be dynamically rendered after decryption.
At this time, it cannot (and should not) participate in the build process to generate static artifacts (otherwise it will be seen directly).
:::

```md
---
password: valaxy
---
```

### 其它 {lang="zh-CN"}

::: zh-CN

- `toc: false`: 隐藏目录
- `aside: false`: 隐藏右侧文章导航栏
- `codeHeightLimit: 300`: 代码块高度限制（300px）

:::

### Other {lang="en"}

::: en

- `toc: false`: Hide TOC
- `aside: false`: Hide Right Aside
- `codeHeightLimit: 300`: Code block height limit（300px）

:::
